“Preorder”, the first movement of this piece, was made using PySynth module S - a module based on the Karplus-Strong “string plucking” algorithm. The mRNA of a model tree species was collected and dispersed through a BST through 172 nodes. The mRNA sequence contains 10 character segments of combinations of the following: ‘a’, ‘c’, ‘t’, ‘g’. A preorder traversal was done to create a notes string, and each ‘t’ character was replaced with a valid musical note. In the algorithm for this piece, each node plays each note at the same pitch, and the pitch is incremented as much as it can be before it starts to decrement. 

“Inorder”, the second movement of this piece, was also made using PySynth module S. The same BST from Movement I was used, but this time, an inorder traversal was done to get the entire notes string. The second movement begins with a section resembling the first movement, before moving into its own algorithm. Each node cycles through pitches, incrementing the pitch after every third note is played. This movement varies even more from the first, as I utilized Audacity to layer sounds and piece sections of the program output together. 

“Postorder”, the third movement of this piece, was made using PySynth module B. This synthesizer is much different from S, as it does not use the Karplus-Strong algorithm, and instead produces a more electronic sound. The same BST from Movement I and Movement II was used, but this time, a postorder traversal was done to get the entire notes string. The movement begins by using this synthesizer with the same algorithms from the first two movements, but then soon evolves into its own algorithm, varying pitches and note lengths as it progresses.
